KNEC - CSBS-News Letter   2023-2024: Issue 1  
 
Department of Computer Science and Business Systems  
JUNE  2023 – MAY 2024      Issue 1  
 
NEWS LETTER                      For private circulation only  
 
 
Department Vision  
 2023-2024 
KNEC - CSBS-News Letter   2023-2024: Issue 1   
 
 
CONTENTS  
 Mission  
 Vision  
 PEO’S  
 About the Department  
❖ Department Events  
 Symposium, Workshops & Guest Lecture organized by the  Department  
 Sports Activities  
 FDP/Workshop attended by the Faculty  
 FDP/Workshop/Paper Presentation attended by the Students  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
KNEC - CSBS-News Letter   2023-2024: Issue 1   
 
Department Vision  
To provide the best opportunity to the students to attain technical excellence in the field of 
Computer Science and Business Systems Engineering and to produce competitive and 
versatile computer engineers.  
Department Mission  
1. Educating students with the background of fundamentals, stretching their imagination 
to meet the challenges in the field of Computer Science and Business Systems . 
2. Transforming the emerging technology to the young minds by effective teaching 
learning process.  
3. Imparting the self learning ability, leadership and managerial quality to the students.  
 
Programme Educational Objectives (PEOs)  
PE01  - To ensure graduates will be proficient in utilizing the fundamental knowledge of 
basic sciences, mathematics, Computer Science and Business systems for the 
applications relevant to various streams of Engineering and Technology . 
 
PEO2 - To enrich graduates with the core competencies necessary for applying 
knowledge of computer science and Data analytics tools to store, retrieve, implement 
and analyze data in the context of business enterprise  
 
PEO3  - To enable graduates to gain employment in organizations and establish 
themselves as professionals by applying their technical skills and leadership qualities 
to solve real world problems and meet the diversified needs of industry, academia 
and research  
 
PEO4 - To equip the graduates with entrepreneurial skills and qualities which help them 
to perceive the functioning of business, diagnose business problems, explore the 
entrepreneurial opportunities and prepare them to manage business efficiently.  
KNEC - CSBS-News Letter   2023-2024: Issue 1   
Programme Outcomes (POs)  
Engineering Graduates will be able to:  
 
1. Engineering knowledge : Apply the knowledge of mathematics, science, engineering  
fundamentals, and an engineering specialization to the solution of complex engineering 
problems.  
2. Problem analysis : Identify, formulate, review research literature, and analyze complex  
engineering problems reaching substantiated conclusions using first principles of 
mathematics, natural sciences, and engineering sciences.  
3. Design/development of solutions : Design solutions for complex engineering 
problems and  design system components or processes that meet the specified needs 
with appropriate consideration for the public health and safety, and the cultural, 
societal, and environmental considerations.  
4. Conduct investigations of complex problems : Use research -based knowledge and 
research  methods including design of experiments, analysis and interpretation of data, 
and synthesis of the information to provide valid conclusions.  
5. Modern tool usage : Create, select, and apply appropriate techniques, resources, and 
modern  engineering and IT tools including prediction and modeling to complex 
engineering activities with an understanding of the limitations.  
6. The engineer and society : Apply reasoning informed by the contextual knowledge to 
assess  societal, health, safety, legal and cultural issues and the consequent 
responsibilities relevant to the professional engineering practice.  
7. Environment and sustainability : Understand the impact of the professional 
engineering solutions  in societal and environmental contexts, and demonstrate the 
knowledge of, and need for sustainable development.  
8. Ethics : Apply ethical principles and commit to professional ethics and responsibilities 
and norms of  the engineering practice.  
9. Individual and team work : Function effectively as an individual, and as a member or 
leader in  diverse teams, and in multidisciplinary settings.  
10. Communication : Communicate effectively on complex engineering activities with the 
engineering  community and with society at large, such as, being able to comprehend 
and write effective reports and design documentation, make effective presentations, 
and give and receive clear instructions.  
11. Project management and finance : Demonstrate knowledge and understanding of the  
engineering and management principles and apply these to one’s own work, as a 
member and leader in a team, to manage projects and in multidisciplinary 
environments.  
12. Life -long learning : Recognize the need for, and have the preparation and ability to 
engage in  independent and life -long learning in the broadest context of technological 
change.  
KNEC - CSBS-News Letter   2023-2024: Issue 1   
Programme Specific Outcomes (PSOs)  
At the end of the programme, the graduates will be able to:  
PSO1 - To create, select, and apply appropriate techniques, resources, modern 
engineering and business tools including prediction and data analytics to complex 
engineering activities and business solutions  
PSO2 - To evolve computer science domain specific methodologies for effective decision 
making in several critical problem domains of the real world.  
PSO3  - To be able to apply entrepreneurial skills and management tools for identifying, 
analyzing and creating business opportunities with smart business ideas  
PSO4  - To manage complex IT projects with consideration of the human, financial, ethical 
and environmental factors and an understanding of risk management processes, and 
operational and policy implications  
 
 
 
       Department of computer science and business systems organized a 5 day Value added 
course on Cloud Computing Technologies (Microsoft Azure, Amazon ) from 06/03/2024 to 
09/03/2024. Ms.M.Anitha  Head of Department  introduced a chief guest Mr. Venkatesan 
Gopal, Senior Solution Architect, Finastra MISYS, A sonata software services company, 
Chennai.  This course focused in enabling the students for using and understanding AZURE 
AD RBAC . Understand the potential impact of cloud technologies on various industries. 
Provided insight into the emerging trends and future directions of AWS cloud.  At 
valedictory ceremony, the participant s were awarded the certificates.  The ceremony  
function came to an end with a group photo session . 
 VALUE ADDED COURSE  
 
KNEC - CSBS-News Letter   2023-2024: Issue 1   
 
✓ Ms. M. Anitha – attended an Online FDP on Five Days National Level Online Faculty 
Development Programme on “Unlocking Industry Insights in Data Science” from 
12.02.2024 to 16.02.2024 organized by Department of Computer Science & Engineering 
(Data Science), Madanapalle Institute of Technology & Science, Madanapalle -517325.  
✓ Ms. M. Anitha – Published a Book Chapter titled Artificial Intelligence – Emerging Marketing 
in Economies, Challenges, Opportunities, with Integrated Development of SMES in PMS in 
Futuristic Trends in Computing Technologies and Data Sciences, e -ISBN: 978 -93-6252 -
441-6, IIP Series, Volume 3, Book 6, Part 1, Chapter 1   February 2024.  
✓ Ms. M. Anitha – Published a Journal titled Dynamic Mobile Cloud Ecosystem Security a 
Review in International Journal of Data Informatics and Intelligent Computing. March 
23, 2023  
✓ Ms. M. Anitha – Published a Journal titled Skin Cancer Detection Using Deep Learning a 
Review in International Journal of Scientific Research in Engineering & Management, 
May, 2023  
✓ Ms. M. Anitha – attended FDP on Full Stack with Python Programming at KCG College of 
Engineering and Technology, Chennai.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 FDP/WORKSHOP /journal/conference  ATTENDED BY THE FACULTIES  
KNEC - CSBS-News Letter   2023-2024: Issue 1   
 
 
S. 
No. Academ
ic Year  Event Type  
Workshop/  
Conference/  
Symposium  College 
/Industry/Univ
ersity  
Attended  Name of the Event  Students 
Participated  Prizes / 
Awards Won  
1 2023 -24 Online Course  Infosys 
Springboard  Introduction To Java  
 Velmurugan S  
Dharshan J  
Logeswaran S  Completed  
2 2023 -24 Project Expo -24 
 Kingston 
Engineering 
College  Project Expo -24 
 Logeswaran S  
Sarath Kumar U  
Rohith R  
Chethanprasath T C  Second Prize  
3 2023 -24 Workshop  Kingston 
Engineering 
College  Self Defence Training 
Program for Girls  
 Sathyasadhana S  
Salini V  
Priyanka S  
Mathumitha S  
Gayathri G  
Monica B  
Monica P  
Gayathri G  
Harini Sree S  
Divya K  
Archana G  Participated  
4 2023 -24 Online Course  Infosys 
Springboard  Personal Skills For 
Effective Business Analysis  Priyanka S  Completed  
5 2023 -24 Online Course  Infosys 
Springboard  Business Analysis 
Analytical Techniques  Priyanka S  Completed  
6 2023 -24 Online Course  Infosys 
Springboard  Cloud Computing  Priyanka S  Completed  
7 2023 -24 Online Course  Infosys 
Springboard  Python Programming -01 Priyanka S  Completed  
8 2023 -24 Online Course  Infosys 
Springboard  Machine Learning With 
Matlab  Priyanka S  Completed  
9 2023 -24 Online Course  Infosys 
Springboard  Self Defence Training 
Program For Girls  Priyanka S  Completed  
10 2023 -24 Online Course  Infosys 
Springboard  Business Analyst To Data 
Analyst  Priyanka S  Completed  
11 2023 -24 Online Course  Infosys 
Springboard  Business Analyst  Priyanka S  Completed  
12 2023 -24 Online Course  Infosys 
Springboard  Decision Analyst  Priyanka S  Completed  
13 2023 -24 Online Course  Infosys 
Springboard  The Strategy Analysis 
Knowledge Area  Priyanka S  Completed  
14 2023 -24 Online Course  Infosys 
Springboard  Full Stack Development:  
Introduction  Priyanka S  Completed  
15 2023 -24 Online Course  Infosys 
Springboard  Ruby Full Stack 
Development:  Introduction  Priyanka S  Completed  
16 2023 -24 Online Course  Infosys 
Springboard  Business Analysis 
Overview  Priyanka S  
 Completed  
17 2023 -24 Online Course  Infosys 
Springboard  System Analyst  Priyanka S  
 Completed  
18 2023 -24 Cultural  Kingston 
Engineering 
College  POSTER MAKING 
COMPETITION  Divya K  
 Participated  Inplant training/internship/ WORKSHOP/ PAPER PRESENTATION ATTENDED BY THE STUDENTS  
KNEC - CSBS-News Letter   2023-2024: Issue 1   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
